okay folks welcome back this teaching is
gonna be specifically dealing with
considerations and risk management
this module hopefully will be a little
bit more of a server reminder about how
we should be looking at risk and how we
can manage risk to survive and have
longevity in our trading all right maybe
you had this in mind when you first got
into the trading after all the guy that
sat down with you before told you
hey this meth is so good you risk 10% of
your equity it's gonna make you money
okay if you have equity balance of
$10,000 you're gonna risk 10% now the
first loss you assume guess what you
just took out 1,000 our loss okay
system says continue risking 10% so what
do you do you get anything you take the
next rate bang you hit with a 900 hours
your equity now sits at eight thousand
one hundred dollars three losses you hit
with another a-huntin dollar loss bang
your accounts not seven thousand two
hundred ninety dollars
this goes on for what could easily be
seen in anyone's trading eight string
loss eight string loss that is
absolutely realistic guys I don't care
how good a trader you are you're going
to get this upside your head one day and
you need to be prepared for it if you're
gonna risk 10% of your equity simply
because you think you're gonna be
hitting it on the next trade and you've
been in drawdown there's a psychological
impact that traders go through and we
more or less deny the technicals that
may be indicating that we're in a a
trade that's not gonna pan out but we
won't let go of it we start armwrestling
with the market because hey you know
we're gonna be right and it's gonna feel
so good when we are and we can give the
middle finger not to be crude to the
screen you know cuts at the screen you
know say I got you I got my money back
everybody wants to have that tough you
know that that feeling of conquering the
market and beating the guy that took the
money from you last time everybody wants
to go into the end zone slam football
down and do their victory dance and all
that but that doesn't work in this
business and they'll hand you your head
on a platter
if you give them the opportunity to take
your money
in a lot of it they're gonna be more
than happy to take it from you if you
just take an eighth loss streak here and
your equity of $10,000 your count draws
down five thousand two hundred seventeen
dollars that's fifty two percent fifty
two percent folks you think you can take
eight trades in a single week the way
some of you guys on these forums trade
this could happen in a day now I'm not
saying that most of you guys aren't risk
that are risking 10 percent you know but
there are some neophytes to come into
this business and think they're gonna be
able to do it and I'm sorry but you know
maybe you'll come off the gate make a
couple wins and think man
yeah I'm risking 10 percent and look
it's it's really working out well but
man I'm telling you this that cycle
leads to destruction
all right just eight trades look at this
if you have eight losses you're crushed
that's that's a huge draw down not not
to mention the emotional impact and your
mental equity because not only are we
trading with real tangible money
currency in our account that equity base
is not limited to stitute a dollar terms
you have an equity Mont amount of money
in your mind what you're really willing
to absorb in risk you may have put
$10,000 on account but man you don't
really want to be losing 4,000 of it so
what are you really trading with $4,000
that's your mental capital so we're
gonna talk more about that when we get
into wealth building money management
but for now understand that risking 10
percent absolutely should be no-brainer
for you you don't do that okay maybe
you're so turned off by ten percent but
hey you know you're not too afraid of
taking risks to five percent for traders
you know it's doable for you ten
thousand dollars starting account okay
first lost bang five on our loss now
your account drops down to nine thousand
five hundred dollars you do this for a
couple series of losses you know at the
fifth loss okay now your accountants
down to seven thousand seven hundred
thirty seven dollars but hey you
you're gonna make it back and you're not
gonna Bend 5% risk on every trade well
with the standard typical 8 string loss
that can happen to anybody
I'm not saying gonna have this once a
month I'm not saying you gonna have it
you know three times a year but it's
gonna happen eventually if you are in
this business at any length of time you
will suffer a eight loss string it's
gonna happen if you had the risk of 5%
per tray starting with equity balance of
$10,000 your equity will draw down to
the tune of three thousand sixteen
dollars or thirty percent drawdown can
you can you withstand that can you
imagine taking a trait in a single week
and being drawn down 30 percent let me
tell you something I have done that I
have done that okay and it is absolutely
demoralizing because if you come out the
gate strong thinking yeah man I'm gonna
I'm gonna tear it up oh yeah you're
gonna tear it up all right you're gonna
tear up your account okay and you're
gonna sit there and you'll be depressed
for the entire weekend you're gonna go
over possibly adding more money when
that's not the answer the answer is is
controlling the amount of money that you
put up and controlling yourself it's
very difficult when you're in a period
of drawdown if you're a new trader I'm
talking from experience okay when I got
involved with commodities I was trading
you know five and six seven contracts of
Chicago portrayed wheat and really my
balance really should have been working
with one madamn contract and I'm not
gonna go into contracts and
specifications for commodities but I'm
just saying that I was over leveraging
and the worst part of it I knew I was
over leveraging and when I was losing it
didn't hurt enough I was going to be
right I was imposing my will in the
market and I'm telling you you will lose
doing that it will hurt you doing that
you don't gain anything from that except
for misery and depression trust me I
know
okay so 5% risk is absolutely too much
it's insane don't do it all right now
let's look at the typical traders
thought going in this is the standard
mentality of all traders if you read it
on all the farms all the books we all
say and I preached it to don't risk any
more than
portrayed alright okay we're gonna look
at trader one up here at the top okay
you have one trader starting with an
equity balance of $10,000 and he's gonna
risk 2% per trade and he runs into the
inevitable eight string loss it's gonna
happen
well the account draws down after eight
losses 1318 dollars total percentage
drawdown 13% yeah you could probably
withstand that I mean most traders could
absorb that certainly new trades because
they're in there invincible and they're
eventually going to be in the next
streak where they make 100% accuracy so
this is absolutely you know within the
realm of comfort for most people if they
have a ten thousand dollar equity
balance and the only drawdown you know
1,300 bucks most people can absorb that
but let's flip the script for a moment
look at trader - okay
he starts with $10,000 - and he's
starting with 2% risk watch what happens
his first loss at 2% is 200 hours
suddenly he has a problem he has
absorbed a loss something's gonna take
place in this traders mind that didn't
take place in the first traders mine so
his next trade he only loses
98 dollars but it's still a loss so the
next trade he takes is what a loss of
$48 look at just after three losses the
difference in terms of equity where are
we at essentially in the same
neighborhood but look what happens over
the period of the eight losses trader -
after eight string loss his account
draws down five hundred thirty-eight
dollars total percentage draw down five
percent do you see a difference there
what do you think trader - did
differently that trader one didn't do
number one he identified the fact that
he's not perfect
he identified or she rather in deference
to the ladies that are watching this
aria oh sorry gals ii trader here in our
case study when he absorbs a loss okay
he only takes one to do this the first
loss immediately he cuts his risk in
half so no longer is he risking 2% so
now he has four all down to two hundred
hours so he risks when the next trade
when his account equity is at $9,800
he's gonna risk 1% per trade now he
assumes another loss does he stay at 1%
absolutely not what does he do he drops
down to one half of 1% so his next trade
he has a loss
$48.50 god you can take that if you got
9700 in your account and you can lose
$48 you can lose 50 bucks
you're not losing sleep over that if you
could use if you lose sleep over that
type of loss with the equity balance of
nine thousand seven dollars stop trading
it's not for you go go bet at the horse
races and you can play lottery something
like that but i'm telling you you have
to assume some kind of risk you know
this goes along with everything that's
been discussed at the beginning of the
disclaimers i mean you have to
understand you're gonna lose money in
this business and if you're not
comfortable with losing money on a
consistent basis where you're not
perfect bottom line is stop trading okay
i have losses you're gonna have losses
too I can't teach you how to trade
perfectly without losses no one can
you're not gonna be able to find it and
if that's the Grail you're looking for
it doesn't exist trust me it doesn't
exist because I'd pay everything I have
for and it's not there trust me
so let's keep this train rolling here
okay after he drops his equity risk to
one half of one percent okay he has
another loss the fourth loss okay
forty eight dollars and twenty seven
cents well he takes another loss he
stays at one half of one percent look
what happens at the end of his eight
losses he's got a huge amount of his
starting equity still at his disposal
and he suffered eight losses he hasn't
had one winning trade yet now contrast
that with trader one this guy he's down
thirteen hundred bucks
trader - he's only down five hundred and
thirty-eight dollars the 5% drawdown is
absolutely tolerable in anyone trading I
mean you're gonna you're gonna suffer
five percent good grief five percent you
know that's what you're trying to make
you know in a day some some of you guys
that are trading you have to control
your risk okay if you have a loss cut
your risk if you have another loss cut
your risk trade and drop down to one
half of one percent now if you have five
or six trades then you've lost that half
of one percent drop it down to a quarter
percent
okay whatever suits your risk appetite
that's what you have to do but you have
to go the other way you do not you do
not average downloads you don't take
well I lost 2% mean risk for now because
if it all it takes is one trade and I'll
make that back and pay maybe even make
the 2% I was hoping to make on the
previous trade that lost or I only have
to make you know half of what I lost in
terms of pips on the last trades I risk
forcing don't do that guys I've done it
I'm telling I've done it granted I'll go
give you this and I'm gonna be fair
there's been times where early on I did
it and it worked out in my favor but
when I tried it later on it crushed me
and it never gave it back to me it took
more and it took more and it took more
and I'm telling you it is a loser's game
trust me I know this by firsthand
experience it never pans out over time
doesn't happen ok so just don't do it if
you have a loss cut your risk cut your
risk cut your risk all right
now let's assume let's stretch this out
a little bit all right
trader one had a drawdown of $1,300 okay
on eight losses not one trade was a
winner all eight were losers well look
at trader two let's assume for a moment
the guy hits and he's got a bad run you
know he's got some problems in his
personal life you know nine to five
getting him you know stressed out his
boss is driving him crazy
you know he's rushing trades he's not
following the system he's not feeling
well he's spending too much time in the
forms and not really studying the charts
it's something that's keeping him from
being disciplined okay he's not hitting
on all four you know on all cylinders
something's wrong maybe he's got a
system doesn't work maybe he's a bent he
hasn't abandoned his bad habits bottom
line is is he's not me a profitable
trade yet look what traitor two can
absorb he can absorb three times the
amount of loss that traitor one can
following the same approach the first
loss risking 2% he only draws down the
$9,800
second loss risking 1% now cuz he's
trimmed back to his risk he only loses
98 dollars his drawdown goes to 97
hundred dollars in his account now he's
at 1/2 of 1% and he stays there ok all
the way through up to 24 losses this
gentleman or young lady could have a
loss string of 24 losses and still be
less than the first trader think about
that this guy or gal can have 24 losing
trades and still have lost less than the
first trader on a trades because he
didn't augment his risk exposure you
have to control the amount of risk in
your account if you do not do this no
one's doing it for you I can't do it for
you your wife can't do it for you your
husband can't do it for you the kids
can't do it that a broker certainly
ain't gonna do it okay so you have to
have this in your plan it has to be
mounted on the wall tattooed on your
hand it's got to be on your forehead so
when you see yourself in the mirror you
see this all the time control risk I
can't stress it enough nobody talks
about it enough and you have to do this
you
absolutely have to do this okay this
will give you the the viagra effect not
to be crude but it gives you the staying
power you have to be able to absorb
losses so I'm telling these banks
they're ruthless as good as my methods
are I still get slapped around sometimes
okay it's gonna happen now granted when
we drop down to half a percent okay
we're not probably going to make a whole
lot of money coming back out of it sure
that's fine but there's a there's a
strategy that we're implying that goes a
long way in terms of a profitable career
okay if you can absorb 24 losses and
only have 12% drawdown you're
controlling risk there's not a trader
out there okay that can beat their chest
and say I've been trading for five eight
ten years okay and I've never had an
eight-string loss okay I'm telling you
that they don't don't
that's a unicorn they don't exist okay
so you're gonna have strengths or losses
I'm showing you how even I've never had
twenty four losses I'll give you that
I've never had a string of 24 losses but
I've given you a shield okay
I've given you a mindset when you step
out in that arena and risk your capital
and you risk your money this is your
only defense this right here okay it's
not the trade signals okay it's not the
amount of money you put in the account
to start with it's the amount of money
you put up because whatever you offer
them in your hand open palms they're
gonna take it if they can so if you give
them a large percentage of it all you're
doing is enticing more interest in
taking it from you okay so the more of
the story is if you have a loss cut your
risk if you look if you have a loss
again you cut your risk and you drop
down to 1/2 of 1% okay and you stay
there until we have a turn in equity and
when you start making money and start
being profitable okay
there's a way of going back to the
original risk exposure say your maximum
risk exposures 2% per trade okay how do
we how do we compensate for that how do
we get back to that that point well
let's talk about that now how how do we
how do we go forward with this
information okay well when we experience
a loss the first thing you want to do is
number one
reduce risk that's the absolute first
thing you think in your mind not let me
get that kinda try to get my money back
no you cut risk why because you already
have a state of mind where you feel
you're victimized okay I don't care how
long you've been trading losses still
haven't have an impact okay I don't like
losing I hate losing okay because my
method wins more than it loses when it
happens I don't like it okay but I don't
beat myself up about it and go in I said
well you know I lost $500 I'm gonna get
intrigued and I'm gonna try to you know
make $2,000 on the next trade because I
lost five I want to get four times as
much money back I wanna do it in half
the time
I don't think like that anymore I did
I'm gonna give you this I did think like
that years ago but I don't need to do
that anymore okay and you don't need to
do that now if you haven't adopted that
bad habit this is hopefully keep you
from doing it so if you take a loss of
2% the next trade you will only assume
1% risk now should this trade result in
a loss the next trade will only assume
1/2 of 1% okay you will only risk 1/2 of
1% per trade until you have made at
least 50% of the drawdown of the equity
dip from the trade risking 1% of equity
okay so in other words the trade that
you lost when you were risking 1%
whatever that amount is let's say it's
500 bucks
you need to make $250 risking 1/2 of 1%
before you can trade up to the 1% risk
per trade tier okay now you're gonna
risk 1% per trade until you make at
least fifty percent of the equity dip
that you used when you risked 2% per
trade okay
so again if you're risking 500 hours
when you were risking 2% at 1% risk you
need to make at least $250 before you go
back to risking 2% if you lose you go
back to that system again you drop cut
it in half cut it in half cut in half
and now you have an opportunity to step
back and say okay I can take some blows
I can get knocked around but I'm not
getting taken out of the game okay so
now hopefully hopefully with this
presentation you can breathe there's a
way of doing it guys okay and this is
how it's done you can't stay in this
business without controlling your risk
that's the morale let's stick to the
game plan stick to the method of
controlling risk using this approach and
I absolutely guarantee okay you want the
holy grail this is the holy grail this
is it you have to have a shield in this
business if you don't your money's going
to come to me it's going to go to the
central banks it's gonna go to the guys
that know how to do this okay because
I'm gonna be in the game years from now
you know and I'm gonna still apply this
approach when I have losses this is how
I do it this is what kept me in the game
as long as it has been it's going to be
a concept that I hold closest to me
because this is more important than my
entry signals this is more important
than my access this is the absolute key
in cornerstone to long-term success in
careers in training
[Music]